.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -mdoc -Tascii checksec.1
.\"
.Dd February 2026
.Dt CHECKSEC 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm checksec
.Nd check executable and kernel security properties
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl -help
.Op Fl -version
.Op Fl -output Ar table|xml|json|yaml
.Op Fl -libc Ar path
.Op Fl -no-banner
.Op Fl -no-headers
.Op Fl -no-warnings
.Op Fl -color Ar auto|always|never
.Ar command
.Op Ar command-options
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a Go implementation of the checksec utility. It inspects ELF binaries and
the running kernel for common hardening features such as RELRO, NX, PIE, RPATH/RUNPATH,
stack canaries, Clang CFI hints, and fortify-able libc usage. Results can be printed
as a table or serialized for machine consumption.
.Sh GLOBAL OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl h , Fl -help
Display help and exit.
.It Fl v , Fl -version
Show version and exit.
.It Fl o , Fl -output Ns = Ns Ar table|xml|json|yaml
Set output format. Default is
.Sy table .
.It Fl l , Fl -libc Ns = Ns Ar path
Set libc location (useful for
.Sy fortify
checks on offline/embedded filesystems).
.It Fl -no-banner
Disable the startup banner.
.It Fl -no-headers
Disable table headers.
.It Fl -no-warnings
Suppress warning messages (e.g., missing libc, unreadable symbol tables).
.It Fl -color Ns = Ns Ar auto|always|never
Control color output. Default is
.Sy auto
(color when writing to a terminal).
Use
.Sy always
to preserve color through pipes.
.El
.Sh COMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Cm file Ar path
Inspect a single ELF file.
.It Cm dir Ar directory
Inspect all ELF files in a directory. Use
.Fl r , Fl -recursive
to recurse into subdirectories.
.It Cm fortifyFile Ar path
Report fortified/fortifiable libc calls in a file.
.It Cm fortifyProc Ar pid
Report fortified/fortifiable libc calls for a running process ID.
.It Cm kernel Op Ar config
Inspect kernel hardening via
.Pa /proc/config.gz
,
.Pa /boot/config-<release>
,
or a supplied config path.
.It Cm proc Ar pid
Inspect the executable of a running process ID.
.It Cm procAll
Inspect all running processes. Kernel threads and processes without readable
.Pa /proc/<pid>/exe
are skipped.
.El
.Sh COMPATIBILITY NOTES
.Bl -bullet
.It
The legacy v2/bash options such as
.Sy --file ,
.Sy --dir ,
and
.Sy --proc-all
are not the primary v3 interface.
.It
Use v3 subcommands instead (for example,
.Sy checksec file /path/to/bin
or
.Sy checksec procAll ) .
.It
If you want compact output similar to older invocations, use
.Sy --no-banner
(and optionally
.Sy --no-headers ) .
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It
.Sy checksec file /bin/ls
.It
.Sy checksec --no-banner --no-warnings file /bin/ls
.It
.Sy checksec --color=always file /bin/ls | grep RELRO
.It
.Sy checksec --output json dir /usr/bin
.It
.Sy checksec dir /usr/bin --recursive
.It
.Sy checksec proc 1
.It
.Sy checksec kernel
.It
.Sy checksec kernel /path/to/config
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
Most commands exit non-zero on fatal errors (e.g., unreadable files). The
.Cm procAll
command skips processes it cannot read and continues.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr hardening-check 1 ,
.Xr feature_test_macros 7 ,
.Xr gcc 1 ,
.Xr ld 1
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
was originally written by
.An Tobias Klein .
The current project is maintained by
.An Brian Davis Aq Mt slimm609@gmail.com .
